						Warcraft III - Reign of Chaos
							Apathetic Aardvark
								Game Script

###Introduction Movie

**Narrator**: The sands of time have run out, son of Durotan.  Cries of war, echo, upon the winds.  The remnants of the past, scar the land... which is besieged once again by conflict.

*[]Various animations of the Orcs colliding with the humans on the battlefield take place.  These battles continue throughout the movie.]*

**Narrator**: Hero's arise to challenge fate and lead their brethren to battle.  As mortal armies rush blindly towards their doom, the burning shadow comes to consume us all. You must rally the horde and lead your people to their destiny!  
*[Whisper]* Seek me out.....


###Prologue Campaign

####Chapter One: Chasing Visions

Somewhere in the Arathi Highlands, Thrall, the young warchief of he orcish Horde, wakes from his troubling dream. The night is rainy.

**Thrall**: What kind of nightmare was that?

*[A raven flies in and speaks to Thrall.  The voice is that of the narrator from the opening movie.]*

**The Prophet**: It was not a nightmare, young warchief, but a vision.  Follow me, and I will reveal what your future holds.

**Thrall**: I don't know what this is all about, but I'll play along.

*[Thrall follows the raven off into the forest.  The level takes place now, once Thrall reaches the end of it, more dialogue occurs.  The Prophet is now in a form which resembles a man.]*

**The Prophet**: Greetings, son of Durotan.  I knew you'd find your way.

**Thrall**: It was you I saw in the vision.  Who are you?  How do you know me?

**The Prophet**: I know many things, young warchief, about you and your people.  My identity, at this time, is unimportant.  What is important is that you rally your people and leave these shores immediately.

**Thrall**: Leave?  What's this all about, human?

**The Prophet**: Human?  I left my humanity behind long ago, I am something...different now.  Know that I have seen the future and beheld the great burning shadow that is coming to consume this world.  You sense it as well, don't you?

**Thrall**: The demons... are returning.

**The Prophet**: Yes.  And only by leading your people across the sea, to the distant lands of Kalimdor, will you have a chance to stand against them!

**Thrall**: But how can we--

**The Prophet**: I will answer all of your questions in time, young warchief.  For now, rally your warriors and prepare to leave this land.  We will speak again.

*[The Prophet flies off]*.

**Thrall**: None of this makes sense, but the spirits tell me... that I should trust him.


Chapter Two: Departures

Three days later, near the Lordaeron Coast.  Thrall is in a small orc
encampment, worried about what the future may hold.

Thrall: It's been three days, and this... prophet has yet to show himself.  I
hope I'm not making a huge mistake by trusting him.

A Grunt runs up to Thrall.

Grunt: Warchief, the clans are assembling as you ordered, but it will take them
some time to reach us.

Thrall: Then we must prepare this camp immediately.  I want my warriors to have
food and proper lodgings when they arrive.

Grunt: Yes, Warchief.

Thrall: Warrior, has there been any word of Grom Hellscream?  He and the
Warsong clan were supposed to have been here by now.

Grunt: No, Warchief.  We haven't heard from Hellscream in some time.

Thrall: Damn it, Grom.  Where the hell are you?

You now play the mission, Thrall's Orcs set up their camp, but before long,
humans erect a bridge on the otherside of the river.

Human Captain: You Orcs are in violation of the Alliance Internment Act!  We've
already captured one of your leaders.  If you surrender now, we'll spare your
lives.

Grunt: Warchief, they say they've captured one of our leaders!  Maybe they're
referring to Grom?

Thrall: I hope not.  But if they have captured Hellscream, I'll make them
regret it!  Lok-Tar Ogar!  Come, my warriors!  We must drive the humans back!

You play through again, working your way to Grom's imprisonment cage.  After
defeating a good sized human force, Thrall reaches Grom, and frees him.

Thrall: Grom, are you alright?

Grom Hellscream: I'm fine, little brother.  Luckily, they only injured my
pride.

Thrall: Great, 'cause we're getting out of here now.  We're leaving the human
lands for good.

Grom Hellscream: Finally, follow me.  I have an idea.

Grom walks over to a view of the river.  There are several human ships sitting
there.

Grom Hellscream: We can set sail on the humans' own ships.

Thrall: Perfect.  But we'll need to wait for the rest of the Horde--

Grunt: The Horde is assembled, Warchief.  We await only your command.

The Orcs get on the ships and set sail.  The Prophet appears on top of the
coast, out of sight of the Orcs.

The Prophet: No, go, young Thrall.  Sail west to the lands of Kalimdor.  It is
there that you will find your destiny.  It is there that your people's
salvation will be assured.


End prologue campaign.
Begin human campaign.

Cinematic.  The Prophet flies towards the human capital.  There is a meeting of
the human nations, discussing several issues.

We've received reports that the Orcs are regrouping.

Certainly the recent attacks against the internment camps are evidence enough.

Agreed.  The Horde is on the move.

This is absurd.  My nation will not standby and watch as the Horde amasses on
our doorstep.

Ambassador: The Orcs are not our primary concern here.  How many times must I
repeat myself.  King Terenas, you must heed my warning.  This plague which has
gripped the Northlands could have dire ramifications.

The Prophet flies into the middle of the chamber.  Only the King seems to be
aware of its presence.

Plague!  You Wizards are just being paranoid!

Let's keep all of this in perspective.  Even if this plague poses a threat to
us, what do you propose we do about it?

Ambassador: As I have said, Kirin Tor are already prepared to place the
villages under strict quarantine.

King Terenas: I will not institute quarantine without proof of your claims,
ambassador.  The people of Lordaeron have suffered enough without becoming
prisoners in their own land.

The Prophet reveals himself.

The Prophet: Yet, prisoners they are, good King.

King Terenas: What is the meaning of this, who are you?

The Prophet: Humanity is in peril, the tides of darkness have come again and
the whole world is poised on the brink of war.

Ambassador: Enough of this.  Guards, remove this man!

The Prophet: Hear me, the only hope for your people is to travel west to the
forgot lands of Kalimdor.

Ambassador: Travel west, are you mad?

King Terenas: Hold ambassador.  I don't know who you are or what you believe,
but this is not the time for rambling prophets.  Our lands are beset by
conflict, but it shall be we to decide how best to protect our people, not you.
Now, be gone!

The Prophet: I failed humanity once before, and I will not do so again.  If you
can not take up this cup, I shall find another who will.


Chapter One: The Defense of Strahnbrad

Recent orc uprisings in southern Lordaeron have forced the alliance to take
decisive measures.  To contain the orcish threat, King Terenas has sent two of
the realms greatest paladins, his son, Prince Arthas, and the legendary Uther
the Lightbringer, to deal with the Orcs once and for all.

Arthas approaches the area.  Uther's troops are training for battle.

Uther the Lightbringer: Welcome, Prince Arthas.  The men and I are honored by
your presence.

Arthas: Can the formalities, Uther.  I'm not king yet.  It's good to see you.

Uther the Lightbringer: You too, lad.  I'm pleased that King Terenas sent you
to help me.

Arthas: Father still hopes your patience and experience might rub off on me.

Uther the Lightbringer: It is a father's right to dream, isn't it?

Arthas: Look, here's where we stand.  Our scouts have confirmed that there is
an orc encampment hidden somewhere over the next ridge.

Uther the Lightbringer: As I suspected.

Arthas: It gets worse.  They're preparing to attack the nearby village of
Strahnbrad.  As far as we know, the village is completely defenseless.

Uther the Lightbringer: I need to move against the Orcs' base immediately.  Can
you handle Strahnbrad's defense on your own?

Arthas: Of course, Uther.  Don't worry about me.

Uther the Lightbringer: Good.  Meet me at the orc camp once you've saved the
village.  Be careful, Arthas.

Uther heads off and Arthas begins heading towards the village.  It seems the
Orcs have beaten him there.  A slave master is already taking prisoners and
executing others.

Slave Master: Haul these wretches off with the rest of them!

Grunt: Move 'em out!

Arthas and his forces come up and take out the Orcs in the city.  Many
townsfolk gather at the sight of this victory.

Sylvia: Bless you, Prince Arthas!

Daniel: But what about the others who were taken away?

Arthas: Don't worry, son.  We'll find them and bring them home safe.

A knight rushes in.

Knight: Prince Arthas, Lord Uther needs you at the orc encampment immediately!

Arthas: Never a dull moment.  Let's get moving!


Chapter Two: Blackrock and Roll

A mere twenty minutes later, Arthas arrives at Uther's position, near the
Blackrock Clan's camp.

Uther the Lightbringer: Ah, good timing, lad.  I sent two of my best knights in
to parley with the orc leader.  They should be returning shortly.

Moments later, two riderless horses come rushing out of the forest.

Uther the Lightbringer: Damn.  These Orcs will never surrender

Arthas: Then let's get in there and destroy the beasts!

Uther the Lightbringer: Remember, Arthas, we are paladins.  Vengeance cannot be
a part of what we must do.  If we allow our passions to turn to bloodlust, then
we will become as vile as the Orcs.

Arthas: Yes, Uther.

Uther the Lightbringer: Now, if you're feeling up to it, I want you to lead the
attack.

Arthas: Me?  Well, of course!

Uther the Lightbringer: I'll remain here and ensure that none of the loathsome
beasts threaten the camp.

Arthas: I won't fail you.

Uther the Lightbringer: I know you won't.

Eventually, Arthas will get near the orc camp, and an Orc Blademaster will
approach the human base.  Uther quickly rushes to fight it.

Blademaster of the Blackrock Clan: Paladin fool!  The warlocks of the Blackrock
clan have spoken!  Soon, demons will rain from the sky, and this wretched world
will burn!

Uther the Lightbringer: Yes, I've heard this rhetoric before.  You Orcs will
never learn!

Uther strikes the blademaster, which quickly disperses into mist.

Uther the Lightbringer: It was only a mirror image.  Damn it, what are these
curs up to?

At a sacrificial pit, the real blademaster has some human prisoners.

Blademaster: The hour of doom approaches!  Let this paltry sacrifice appease
our demon masters!

Unlucky Footman: You sick bastards!  You'll never get away with--

The blademaster kills all three human prisoners.

Arthas: Slay the Orcs!  Slay them all!

Arthas and his army defeat the Blademaster and his forces.

Uther the Lightbringer: You've done well, lad.  This was a sound victory.

Arthas: I don't know, Uther.  The Orcs were sacrificing townsfolk.  I think
they were trying to summon demons.

Uther the Lightbringer: Have faith, lad.  These Orcs are trying to hold on to
dying traditions.  We defeated their demons a long time ago.  Let's head for
home.  It's been a long day.


Intermission: Jaina's meeting.

The scene shifts to mage kingdom of Dalaran, led by Antonidas.  The Prophet is
here attempting to make his case to yet another human leader.

The Prophet: You must be wiser than the king!  The end is near!

Antonidas: I told you before.  I'm not interested in this nonsense!

The Prophet: Then I've wasted my time here.

The Prophet turns back into a raven and flies off.

Antonidas: You can show yourself now, Jaina.  He's gone.

Jaina: I'm sorry for eavesdropping master, but--

Antonidas: {laugh} It's your inquisitive nature that I've come to rely on,
child.  That crazed fool's convinced that the world is about to end.

The teleport deeper into the castle.

Jaina: I've heard the rumors of the plague spreading throughout the northlands.
Do you truly believe that the plague is magical in nature?

Antonidas: It's a strong possibility.  That's why I need you to travel there
and investigate the matter.  I've arranged for a special envoy to assist you.

Jaina: Yes, master.  I'll do my best.

Antonidas: I know you will, child.  Farewell.


Chapter Three: Ravages of the Plague.

Three days later near Alterac, Arthas and his men wait at a crossroads along
the King's road.

Captain: Prince Arthas, we've been waiting here for hours.  Are you sure this
friend of yours is coming?

Arthas: I'm sure.  Jaina usually runs a little late.

Jaina runs in from down the road, she's being pursued by a pair of Ogres.

Captain: We must help her!

Arthas: Stay your blade, Captain.  She can take care of herself.

With the help of her summoned water elemental, Jaina defeats one of the ogres.
The other runs off.

Arthas: Gentlemen, meet Miss Jaina Proudmoore, special agent to the Kirin Tor,
and one of the most talented sorceresses in the land.  Looks like you haven't
lost your touch.  It's good to see you again, Jaina.

Jaina: You too, Arthas.  It's been awhile since a prince escorted me anywhere.

Arthas: Yes, it has.  Well, I guess we should get underway.

Jaina: Our sources believe the plague originated in the region north of here.
We should check out the villages along the King's Road.

Arthas, Jaina, and the rest of the troops move along.  They encounter a small
farm.

Stacie: Prince Arthas!  There's something amiss at the bridge ahead!

They continue onward to find the bridge has been broken.

Achilles: Milord, someone has destroyed the bridge from the far side of the
river.  There is another way to cross, but it's not as safe as it used to be.

Arthas continues onward, being attacked by several bandits along the way.
After crossing to the otherside of the river, the Prince runs into a pack of
skeletons.  He continues to the outskirts of the village, which is burning.
There are some troops nearby.

Arthas: What were those creatures, Sergeant?

Sergeant: Undead, milord!  This whole village has gone mad!  We did our best to
defend the villagers, but--

Arthas: We'll get to the bottom of this.

Arthas and Jaina continue on.  They pass a granary which is swarmed with flies.

Jaina: It's as if the land around that granary is... dying.

Arthas: Could the grain itself be plagued?

Jaina: Let's hope not.  Those crates bear the regional seal of Andorhal, the
distribution center for the northern boroughs.  If this grain can spread the
plague, there's no telling how many villages might be affected.

They continue to the village itself.  There are a few elven priests there.

Priest: Greetings.  We are the priests from Quel'Thalas.  We've come to help
heal the land of this strange curse.

Jaina: As always, the generosity of the elves is greatly appreciated.

Priest: You should know that there is a granary warehouse at the far end of
this village.  This evil blight may be evident there as well.

Arthas: We'll check it out.

Just a few buildings ahead, a dwarven mortar team is randomly firing out into
the night.

Arthas: What the hell are you men shooting at?

Mortar Team: We're blasting those damned skeletons, sir.  This whole flaming
village is crawling with them.

Arthas: Well, I could use your help.  We've got a warehouse to destroy at the
end of town.

Arthas continues towards the warehouse.  Several undead are gathered around a
necromancer.  There are many crates of grain sitting near them.

Kel'Thuzad [Necromancer]: We've been discovered, my brothers!  Flee and
continue with the operation!  I'm sorry I can't stay and chat. but... duty
calls.

A large stitched up creature appears from a nearby building.  It along with a
few other undead come near Arthas and Jaina while Kel'Thuzad retreats.

Jaina: That creature looks like it was sewn together from different corpses.

Arthas: Let's study it after we kill it, okay?

Arthas and crew destroy the undead and eventually the warehouse holding the
plagued grain.

Arthas: What was that?  And who was that wizard dressed in black?

Jaina: I believe that the robed man was a necromancer.  Obviously, he and his
lackeys are behind this plague.

Arthas: Well, it's a good bet we'll find him, and the answers we're looking
for, in Andorhal.


Chapter Four: The Cult of the Damned

The next day, outside of Andorhal, Arthas and Jaina catch up to the undead.
Arthas decides to make the next move.

Jaina: Look, the cultists who were with the necromancer!  What are they doing
to that mine?

Arthas: Let's not wait to find out!  Attack!

Undead Acolyte: Damn these intruders!  They must not interfere with the
master's plan!

Arthas: Let's build a base camp here.  With those cultists creeping around, I'd
rather not head in there without backup.

Jaina: I couldn't agree more.

Arthas' troops quickly set up a small camp.  As Arthas begins to explore the
area, it becomes clear that he and Jaina are too late, and that the grain has
already been sent out.  Eventually, he enters the necromancer.

Kel'Thuzad: Hello again, children.  I am Kel'Thuzad, and I've come to deliver a
warning.  Leave well enough alone.  Your curiosity will be the death of you.

Arthas: Are you responsible for this plague, necromancer?  Is this cult your
doing?

Kel'Thuzad: Yes, I ordered the Cult of the Damned to distribute the plagued
grain.  But the sole credit is not mine.

Jaina: What do you mean?

Kel'Thuzad: I serve the dreadlord Mal'Ganis.  He commands the Scourge that will
cleanse this land and establish a paradise of eternal darkness!

Arthas: And what exactly is this Scourge meant to cleanse?

Kel'Thuzad: Why, the living, of course.  His plan is already in motion.  Seek
him out at Stratholme if you need further proof.

Kel'Thuzad runs off, deeper into Andorhal, but Arthas is not satisfied.  He
pursues and eventually wounds Kel'Thuzad, mortally.

Kel'Thuzad: Naive fool.  My death will make little difference in the long run.
For now, the scourging of this land... begins.

Kel'Thuzad dies.


Chapter Five: March of the Scourge.

Arthas and Jaina arrive in Hearthglen the next day, passing through on their
way to Stratholme.

Jaina: Hearthglen, finally!  I could use some rest!

Arthas: It looks like they're preparing for battle.

Footman: Prince Arthas!  During the night, a vast army of undead warriors
emerged and began attacking the villages at random.  Now, it's heading this
way!

Arthas: Damn it, Jaina.  I'll stay here and protect the village.  Go as quickly
as you can and tell Lord Uther what's happened.

Jaina: But--

Arthas: Go, Jaina!  Every second counts!

Jaina teleports away.  Arthas catches glimpse of some open crates.

Arthas: Wait-- What did those crates contain?

Footman: Just a grain shipment from Andorhal.  There's no need to worry,
milord.  It's already been distributed amongst the villagers.

Arthas: Oh no.  The plague was never meant to simply kill my people.  It was
meant to turn them... into the undead!  Defend yourselves!

Several villagers turn into undead creatures.  Arthas and the forces of the
town make easy work of them, but it is going to take Jaina quite some time to
return with Uther, and Arthas will need to hold out until then.  Before long,
there are streams of undead leaking into the village from several directions.
Arthas and his troops are well outnumbered and falling fast.

Arthas: Light, give me strength!

The trumpets blow, Uther the Lightbringer and an army of Alliance Knights come
charging in.  Jaina is with them.

Uther the Lightbringer: For Lordaeron!  For the king!

Uthers knights take out a healthy amount of the undead, what is left retreat
from the village.

Arthas: Uther, your timing couldn't have been better.

Uther the Lightbringer: Don't celebrate yet, son.  This battle's far from over!
I'm surprised that you kept things together as long as you did, lad.  If I
hadn't arrived just then--

Arthas: Look, I did the best I could, Uther.  If I'd had a legion of knights
riding at my back, I would've--

Uther the Lightbringer: Now is not the time to be choking on pride!  What we
faced here was only the beginning.  The undead ranks are bolstered every time
one of our warriors falls in battle.

Arthas: Then we should strike at their leader!  I'll go to Stratholme and kill
Mal'Ganis myself if I have to!

Uther the Lightbringer: Easy, lad.  Brave as you are, you can't hope to defeat
a man who commands the dead all by yourself.

Arthas: Then feel free to tag along, Uther.  I'm going.  I'm going, with or
without you.

Arthas journey's through the woods to Stratholme entirely alone.  After a while
he runs into the Prophet.

The Prophet: Greetings, young prince.  We must talk.

Arthas: I have no time for this!

The Prophet: Listen to me, boy.  This land is lost!  The shadow has already
fallen, and nothing you do will deter it.  If you truly wish to save your
people, lead them across the sea... to the west.

Arthas: Flee?  My place is here, and my only course is to defend my people!

The Prophet: Then your choice is already made.  Just remember, the harder you
strive to slay your enemies, the faster you'll deliver your people right into
their hands.

The Prophet turns into a raven and flies off.  Jaina, who had concealed herself
throughout this conversation, reveals herself.

Jaina: I'm sorry for concealing myself, Arthas.  I just wanted to--

Arthas: Don't say it!

Jaina: I sensed tremendous power about him, Arthas.  Maybe he's right.  Maybe
he does know what will happen.

Arthas: Nothing he can say will make me abandon my homeland, Jaina.  I don't
care if that madman has seen the future.  Let's go.

They run off, heading to Stratholme.


Chapter Six: The Culling

Early the next morning, Jaina and Arthas arrive near Stratholme.  Uther arrives
as well.

Arthas: Glad you could make it, Uther.

Uther the Lightbringer: Watch your tone with me, boy.  You may be the prince,
but I'm still your superior as a paladin!

Arthas: As if I could forget.  Listen, Uther, there's something about the
plague you should know...

Arthas looks around and sees grain crates already opened.

Arthas: Oh no.  We're too late.  These people have already been infected!  They
may look fine now, but it's just a matter of time before they turn into the
undead!  This entire city must be purged.

Uther the Lightbringer: How can you even consider that?  There's got to be some
other way.

Arthas: Damn it, Uther!  As your future king, I order you to purge this city!

Uther the Lightbringer: You are not my king yet, boy!  Nor would I obey that
command even if you were!

Arthas: Then I must consider this an act of treason.

Uther the Lightbringer: Treason?  Have you lost your mind, Arthas?

Arthas: Have I?  Lord Uther, by my right of succession and the sovereignty of
my crown, I hereby relieve you of your command and suspend your paladins from
service.

Jaina: Arthas, you can't just--

Arthas: It's done!  Those of you who have the will to save this land, follow
me!  The rest of you... get out of my sight!

Uther the Lightbringer: You've just crossed a terrible threshold, Arthas.

Uther runs off with several knights, Jaina turns to run off as well.

Arthas: Jaina?

Jaina: I'm sorry, Arthas.  I can't watch you do this.

She runs off as well.  Arthas begins on a quest to purge zombies from town. His
plans are interrupted though, when an undead leader appears.

Mal'Ganis: I've been waiting for you, young prince.  I am Mal'Ganis.  As you
can see, your people are now mine.  I will now turn this city household by
household, until the flame of life has been snuffed out... forever.

Mal'Ganis knocks down a home and turns those humans who were inside into
undead.

Arthas: I won't allow it, Mal'Ganis!  Better that these people die by my hand
than serve as your slaves in death!

Arthas proceeds to slaughter as many townsfolk as he can before Mal'Ganis is
able to turn them into undead.  Eventually, they will meet up.

Arthas: We're going to end this right now, Mal'Ganis.  Just you and me.

Mal'Ganis: Brave words.  Unfortunately for you, it won't end here.  Your
journey has just begun, young prince.  Gather your forces and meet me in the
arctic land of Northrend.  It is there that we shall settle this score between
us.  It is there that your true destiny will unfold.

Arthas: I'll hunt you to the ends of the earth if I have to!  Do you hear me?
To the ends of the earth!

Three days later, Uther the Lightbringer bringing approaches Jaina Proudmoore,
as they both stand amongst the slaughtered village of Stratholme.  The remains
of bodies are being burned, most of the town is still burning.

Jaina: So much death... I can't believe Arthas could've done this.

Uther the Lightbringer: Jaina!  Jaina Proudmoore!

Jaina: Lord Uther?

Uther the Lightbringer: Ah, Jaina.  I thought I might find you here.  Where has
he gone, girl?  Where has Arthas taken the fleet?

Jaina: He came to me before he left, I pleaded with him not to go.  I told him
it sounded like a trap!

Uther the Lightbringer: Where?

Jaina: Northrend.  He's gone to Northrend to hunt Mal'Ganis.

Uther the Lightbringer: Damn that boy!  I've got to inform King Terenas.  Don't
be too hard on yourself, girl.  You had nothing to do with this... slaughter.

Uther heads off, the Prophet appears before Jaina.

The Prophet: The dead in this land might lie still for the time being, but
don't be fooled.  Your young prince will find only death in the cold north.

Jaina: You!  Arthas is only doing what he believes is right!

The Prophet: Commendable as that may be, his passions will be his undoing.  It
falls to you now, young sorceress.  You must lead your people to the west to
the ancient lands of Kalimdor.  Only there can you combat the shadow and save
this world from the flame.


Chapter Seven: The Shores of Northrend

A month has passed, Arthas' fleet has just arrived at the distant shores of
Northrend, in Daggercap Bay.  He has several boats and troops with him.

Captain: This is a Light-forsaken land, isn't it?  You can barely even see the
sun!  This howling wind cuts to the bone and you're not even shaking.  Milord,
are you alright?

Arthas: Captain, are all my forces accounted for?

Captain: Nearly.  There are only a few ships that--

Arthas: Very well.  Our first priority is to set up a base camp with proper
defenses.  There's no telling what's waiting for us out there in the shadows.

The troops follow Arthas in search of a good location to make a camp.
Eventually, they'll spot a gold mine.

Arthas: Ah, a gold mine!  We'll set up base there.

The peasants rush towards to build.  One of them is shot at and stunned from
some dwarfs hiding.

Arthas: We're under attack!  Take cover!

Muradin Bronzebeard: Bloody Hell!  You're not undead!  You're all alive!

Arthas: Muradin?  Muradin Bronzebeard, is that you?

Muradin Bronzebeard: Damn, boy, I never imagined that you'd be the one to come
to our rescue!

Arthas: Rescue?  Muradin, I didn't even know you were here.

Muradin Bronzebeard: Just the same, lad.  I could use your help.  My mates and
I were attacked and we got separated.  I'd appreciate any backup you could give
me.

Arthas: Of course I'll help, Muradin.  Let's move!

Arthas eventually saves Muradin's men and then presses onward to a nearby
undead base, which he destroys.  It's time for him to get some answers, though.

Arthas:  All right, Muradin.  What were you doing up here, anyway?

Muradin Bronzebeard: Well, lad, there's an ancient way gate that lies somewhere
in this glacial wasteland.  Supposedly, it transports you to a hidden vault
where a runeblade named Frostmourne is held.  We came here to recover
Frostmourne, but the closer we came to finding the way gate, the more undead we
encountered.

One of Arthas' troops rushes up.

Captain: Prince Arthas, we haven't found any trace of Mal'Ganis.

Arthas: No matter.  He can't hide from me forever.  Captain, I want you to
establish this site as our primary base.

Captain: Yes, milord.


Chapter Eight: Dissension

The next morning, at the new base camp a messenger from King Terenas arrives
from a zeppelin.

Captain: I apologize, emissary, but the prince is away on an errand.  What
brings you to this desolate place?

Emissary: By royal edict, you men are to return to Lordaeron immediately.  Lord
Uther has convinced the king to recall this expedition.

Captain: We're to just pick up and leave?

Emissary: That's correct.  My men report that the roads from here to the shore
are held by the undead.  You'll need to find an alternate route back to your
ships.

Captain: To hell with the undead!  We'll cut our way through the woods, men!

The peasants begin chopping down the trees.  A while later, Arthas returns to
base camp and notes no one on duty.

Arthas: Captain, why are the guards not at their posts?

Captain: Well, milord, your father had our troops recalled at Lord Uther's
request.

Arthas: Uther had my troops recalled?  Damn it!  If my warriors abandon me,
I'll never defeat Mal'Ganis.  The ships must be burned before the men reach the
shore!

Muradin Bronzebeard: Isn't that a bit much, lad?

Arthas: Burned down to their frames!  No one goes home until our job here is
done!

Quickly, Arthas realizes a problem.  He'll need to take the road to beat the
rest of his army to the boats, but it is packed with undead.  At the advice of
Muradin Bronzebeard, they hire several mercenaries from nearby camps.  Arthas
and Muradin sink all five ships waiting, the final one moments before the rest
of Arthas' troops arrive.

Arthas: Quickly, my warriors!  These murderous creatures [referring to the
mercenaries] have burned our ships and robbed you of your way home!  Slay them
all in the name of Lordaeron!

Footman: Damn beasts!

Knight: Kill them all!

The mercenaries are killed by Arthas' men.

Footman: Our ships are ruined.  What will we do now?

Arthas: Listen to me, all of you!  There is no way home for any of us, save
through victory!  In this land we will stand or fall together.  Now, return to
the base and man your posts.


Chapter Nine: Frostmourne

The next day at camp, Muradin confronts Arthas.

Muradin Bronzebeard: You lied to your men and betrayed the mercenaries who
fought for you.  What's happening to you, Arthas?  Is vengeance all that's
important to you?

Arthas: Spare me, Muradin.  You weren't there to see what Mal'Ganis did to my
homeland.

As they speak, the valleys echo with the sounds of the undead.  Mal'Ganis
approaches.

Mal'Ganis: The Dark Lord said you would come.  This is where your journey ends,
boy.  Trapped and freezing at the roof of the world, with only death to sing
the tale of your doom.

Muradin Bronzebeard: This looks bad.  We're completely surrounded.

Arthas: There's still one chance.  Help me claim Frostmourne!  If it's as
powerful as you said, it might tilt the scales in our favor!

Muradin Bronzebeard: I have a bad feeling about this, lad.  But I promised I'd
see this through.

Arthas: Captain, I'll leave you to organize our defense.  Let's move out.

Arthas and Muradin head over to the waygate.  It transports them north into a
valley.  The valley is guarded by several creatures, but Arthas pushes through
them.  Eventually they reach a huge guardian, he warns them back.  Arthas, of
course, does not care, and wipes it out.

Guardian: Turn away... before it's... too late.

The gates he protected open and Arthas and Muradin go through.  Frostmourne
floats above an alter, contained in ice.

Arthas: Behold, Muradin, our salvation, Frostmourne.

Muradin Bronzebeard: Hold, lad.  There's an inscription on the dais.  It's a
warning.  It says, "Whomsoever takes up this blade shall wield power eternal.
Just as the blade rends flesh, so must power scar the spirit."  Oh, I should've
known.  The blade is cursed!  Let's get the hell out of here!

Arthas: I would gladly bear any curse to save my homeland.

Muradin Bronzebeard: Leave it be, Arthas.  Forget this business and lead your
men home.

Arthas: Damn the men!  Nothing shall prevent me from having my revenge, old
friend.  Not even you.  Now, I call out to the spirits of this place.  I will
give anything or pay any price, if only you help me save my people.

The ice surrounding Frostmourne shatters.  A shard of it impales Muradin, thus
killing him.  Presumably, the rest of the men with Arthas die here as well.
Frostmourne lands on the ground.  Arthas drops his paladin war hammer and picks
up Frostmourne.  He returns to the way gate back to the camp.  The captain is
there waiting.

Captain: Prince Arthas!  Where is Muradin?  We can't hold out for much longer!

Arthas: Muradin is dead.  But take heart, Captain.  The enemy will not stand
long against the might of Frostmourne!

With his new found rune blade, Arthas is easily able to overwhelm the forces of
the undead.  He reaches Mal'Ganis after defeating the rest of the undead.

Mal'Ganis: So, you've taken up Frostmourne at the expense of your comrades'
lives, just as the Dark Lord said you would.  You're stronger than I thought.

Arthas: You waste your breath, Mal'Ganis.  I heed only the voice of Frostmourne
now.

Mal'Ganis: You hear the voice of the Dark Lord.  He whispers to you through the
blade you wield.  What does he say, young human?  What dose the Dark Lord of
the Dead tell you now?

Arthas: He tells me that the time for my vengeance has come.

Mal'Ganis: What?  He can't possibly mean to--

Arthas Kills Mal'Ganis.

Arthas: It is finished.

Arthas runs off into the cold mountains.  As he roams, the voice of Frostmourne
slowly torments him, until he loses what is left of his sanity.  Now, driven by
the dark will of the sword, Frostmourne, Arthas returns to Lordaeron for his
reward.  He enters the castle after passing through the great courtyard.  He
bows down before his father, King Terenas.

King Terenas: Ah, my son.  I knew you would [the rest of his speech is drowned
out by Arthas]

Arthas [perhaps the voice of Frostmourne]: You no longer need to sacrifice for
your people.  You no longer need to bear the weight of your crown.  I've taken
care of everything.

He grabs his sword and rushes King Terenas.

King Terenas: What is this, what are you doing my son.

Arthas: Succeeding you, father.

Arthas kills Terenas.  The bloodstained crown rattles down the throne stairs
before coming to rest.

Arthas: This kingdom shall fall.  And from he ashes shall arise a new order,
which will shake the very foundations of the world.


End human campaign.
Begin undead campaign.


Chapter One: Trudging through the Ashes

The Lich King's plague of undeath has spread through the capital city and into
the outskirts of Lordaeron.  Shocked and disheartened by the loss of their
beloved king, the forces of Lordaeron were scattered by the ravenous undead
warriors.  Now, Lordaeron is but a shadow of its former glory - and Prince
Arthas has yet to be seen...

Near a small village, Arthas is teleported in by some undead spell.  Arthas is
no longer human, at least, not fully.  He carries Frostmourne still, riding on
an undead horse.  His skin and hair are now grey.

Arthas: What trickery is this?

He sees a dreadlord on a ridge nearby, with several other undead.

Arthas: Mal'Ganis!  I don't know how you survived, but I will--

Tichondrius: Calm yourself, Prince Arthas.  I am Tichondrius.  Like Mal'Ganis,
I am a dreadlord, but I am not your enemy.  In truth, I've come to congratulate
you.

Arthas: Congratulate me?

Tichondrius: By killing your own father and delivering this land to the
Scourge, you have passed your first test.  The Lich King is pleased with
your... enthusiasm.

Arthas: Yes, I've damned everyone and everything I've ever loved in his name,
and I still feel no remorse.  No shame.  No pity.

Tichondrius: The runeblade that you carry was forged by the Lich King and
empowered to steal souls.  Yours was the first one it claimed.

Arthas: Then I'll make do without one.  What is the Lich King's will?

Tichondrius: The cult of the damned must be rallied once again.  Many of the
acolytes have been in hiding amongst the populace.  Once you've rallied them, I
will give you further instructions.

Arthas begins searching out the Acolytes.  The first one greets him.

Acolyte: Greetings, great lord.  Our master, Kel'Thuzad, told us that you would
come.

Arthas: Kel'Thuzad?  How could he have known that--

Acolyte: Be wary.  If the townsfolk see your undead minions, they'll call the
local guards to stop you.

As Arthas rescues the 20 acolytes, various townsfolk and alliance guards who do
see him will shout out nasty things about Arthas killing Terenas and betraying
his people.  Once found, the acolytes will rally near Tichondrius.

Tichondrius: Well done, death knight.  The cult is nearly assembled.

Arthas: Lordaeron lies in ashes.  What good are these cultists to us now?

Tichondrius: They will aid you in your next undertaking.

Arthas: And what's that?

Tichondrius: You will go to Andorhal and recover the remains of the acolytes'
former master, the necromancer, Kel'Thuzad.


Chapter Two: Digging up the Dead

The next day, just outside of Andorhal. Arthas arrives with some undead troops.
Some mechanical devices are brought along with.

Arthas: What the hell is that?

Acolyte: This crude contraption will allow you to transport the remains of our
master.

Arthas: Can you not simply raise the remains when we find them?

Acolyte: Pardon, Lord. but a being of Kel'Thuzad's power can only be reanimated
at a nexus of powerful ley-energies, and there are no such places in this land.

Arthas: Very well, then.  Let's move out.

There are three paladins along the way which Arthas must kill in order to reach
his ultimate goal.  The first guards the ashes of Kel'Thuzad.

Gavinrad the Dire: Arthas!  Stop this madness before it's too late!

Arthas: Stand aside, brother, I've come to collect some old bones, and I don't
wish to be disturbed.

Arthas mortally wounds Gavinrad.

Gavinrad the Dire: I can't believe that we ever called you brother!  I knew it
was a mistake to accept a spoiled prince into our order!  You've made a mockery
of the Silver Hand!

Arthas gets to the ashes of Kel'Thuzad.

Arthas: Come along now, necromancer.  The powers that you once served have need
of you again.

Kel'Thuzad: Told you my death would mean little.

Arthas: What the...  Am I hearing ghosts now?

Kel'Thuzad: It is I, Kel'Thuzad.  I was right about you, Prince Arthas.

Tichondrius: It took you long enough.  These remains are badly decomposed.
They will never survive the trip to Quel'Thalas.

Arthas: Quel'Thalas?

Tichondrius: Yes.  Only the energies of the high elves' sunwell can bring
Kel'Thuzad back to life.

Arthas: Then what must be done?

Tichondrius: You must steal a very special urn from the paladins' keeping.
Place the necromancer's remains within it, and he will be well protected for
the journey.

Arthas: As you wish.

Arthas continues deeper into the Silver Hand territory.  He encounters another
paladin.

Ballador the Bright: Vile betrayer!  You are not fit enough to even carry your
father's name!  Why Uther ever vouched for you is beyond me.  You've stripped
him of his honor by casting yours to the winds!  You deserve a gruesome death,
boy!

Arthas disposes of him quickly, and runs into another paladin.

Sage Truthbearer: Light and mercy on you!  Your betrayal has broken Uther's
heart, boy.  He would have given his life for yours in a second, and this is
how you repay his loyalty?

Arthas kills this paladin as well, and finally reaches Uther's position.  Uther
holds the urn which Tichondrius has sent Arthas to get.

Uther the Lightbringer: Your father ruled this land for seventy years, and
you've ground it to dust in a matter of days.

Arthas: Very dramatic, Uther.  Give me the urn, and I'll make sure you die
quickly.

Uther the Lightbringer: The urn holds your father's ashes, Arthas!  What, were
you hoping to piss on them one last time before you left his kingdom to rot?

Arthas: I didn't know what it held.  Nor does it matter.  I'll take what I came
for one way or another.

Arthas defeats Uther.

Uther the Lightbringer: I dearly hope that there's a special place in hell
waiting for you, Arthas.

Arthas: We may never know, Uther.  I intend to live forever.

Uther dies, Arthas puts Kel'Thuzad's ashes into the urn, and Tichondrius
teleports in.

Tichondrius: Excellent work.  Now, your journey to Quel'Thalas can begin.

Kel'Thuzad [To Arthas]: Tell him nothing!  Only you can hear me.  The
dreadlords cannot be trusted.  They are the Lich King's jailors!  I will tell
you all... when I walk this world again.


The Dreadlords Convene

At a secret meeting place, several Dreadlords get together to talk of coming
events.

Anetheron: Is everything proceeding as planned, Tichondrius?  Lord Archimonde
demands a report on the Scourge.

Tichondrius: The Lich King's young death knight has been performing well...
almost too well.  I begin to wonder if Ner'zhul has ulterior motives for his
new... champion.

Mephistroth: The human means nothing in the long run.  Ner'zhul wouldn't dare
undermine our efforts now.

Anetheron: Our only concern is that the Scourge accomplishes what it was
created to do.  Archimonde will have all our heads if we do not keep control of
the situation!

Tichondrius: Believe me, brother. Neither the Lich King nor his undead lackeys
will jeopardize the Legion's return!

Anetheron: See that they do not.  Lord Archimonde has little patience for
failure.

The meeting ends and the Dreadlords go back to wherever it is they came from.


Chapter Three: Into the Realm Eternal

Six days later near Quel'Thalas, Arthas approaches.

Arthas: Ah, wondrous, eternal Quel'Thalas.  I haven't been here since I was a
boy.

Kel'Thuzad: Be wary.  The elves likely wait in ambush.

Arthas: The frail elves do not concern me, necromancer.  Our forces are
strengthened with every foe we slay.

Kel'Thuzad: Don't be too overconfident, death knight.  The elves must not be
taken lightly.

Arthas: We shall see.  Bring forth the prisoner.

An elf is brought forward by some ghouls.

Arthas: Where is the entrance to your land, elf?

Elven Priest: You will never enter Quel'Thalas, fallen prince.  The woods
themselves protect our borders and the enchanted elfgates protect our capital.

Arthas: Your precious gates will not stop me any more than these trees, little
elf.  Bring up the meat wagons!  We'll make our own entrance.

The Meat Wagons make a small hole in the forest, which reveals a tiny elf
village.

Kel'Thuzad: The energies of this place are strong.  Kill the elves!  Level
their structures!  This location is perfect for your base.

Arthas: It'll be a  pleasure.

Arthas attacks.

High Elf Archer: The undead are advancing!  Alert the sentries!

The small village is easily taken, soon, Arthas is on the move again.  He runs
into an archer.

Sylvanas Windrunner: You are not welcome here.  I am Sylvanas Windrunner,
Ranger General of Silvermoon.  I advise you to turn back now.

Arthas: It is you who should turn back, Sylvanas.  Death itself has come to
your land.

Eventually, Arthas destroys the first elfgate.  Sylvanas and the rest of the
elves watch it happen.

Sylvanas Windrunner: Shindu fallah Na!  Fall back to the second gate!  Fall
back!

Arthas: The elfgate has fallen!  Onward, my warriors!  Onward to victory!


Chapter Four: Key of the Three Moons.

Moments later, as the pursuing Undead army approaches the second gate, they
reach a bridge where Sylvanas is.

Sylvanas Windrunner: Fall back to the trees!  You've won through this gate,
butcher, but you won't get through the second.  The inner gate to Silvermoon
can only be opened with a special key, and it shall never be yours!

Arthas: You waste your time, woman.  You cannot outrun the inevitable.

Sylvanas Windrunner: You think that I'm running from you?  Apparently you've
never fought elves before.

Sylvanas activates a spell, starfall, and it destroys the bridge she had stood
on.  Arthas is trapped on the other side of the river.

Arthas: Damn that woman!  We must find a way to cross the river!

It doesn't take Arthas long to set up a base camp with a method for crossing
the river.  There are three small elven encampments, each holding a piece to
the key.  Once he finds the first, Kel'Thuzad explains its purpose.

Kel'Thuzad: That mooncrystal is a component of the Key of the Three Moons.  The
other two crystals must be found... if the elfgate is to be unlocked.

Once Arthas has all three parts, he moves to the second elfgate.

Arthas: Finally....

The gate is opened.

Arthas: The gates have been opened!  Once we've dealt with Sylvanas, the inner
kingdom shall be ours!

Arthas proceeds inward.

Sylvanas Windrunner: Damn you monsters!  What will it take to drive you back?

Arthas: The ranger woman is starting to vex me greatly.


Chapter Five: The fall of Silvermoon

Moments later, as Arthas approaches the elven capital of Silvermoon,
Tichondrius makes a guest visit at his base camp.

Tichondrius: You've done well... so far.  But the true test still lies before
you.

Arthas: I was wondering when you'd show up.

Tichondrius: I am here to ensure that you do your job, little human.  Not do it
for you.

Arthas: I will reach the Sunwell on my own, dreadlord.

Tichondrius: Be warned.  It is a pool of mystical energy from which the elves
draw their immortal powers.  They will not give it up easily.

Tichondrius vanishes.

Arthas [To Kel'Thuzad's spirit]: Do you think he suspects that you've been
aiding me, necromancer?

Kel'Thuzad: I'm sure he suspects quite a bit.  It is his nature to assume the
worst.  Now steel yourself.  The hour of my rebirth draws near.

The bonus quest here is rather important to the events of the Frozen Throne, so 
I'll go into them, though I usually don't.  One of the two optional missions 
has you destroy Sylvanas Windrunner's base.  Once every building in it is down, 
Arthas and her go one on one.

Arthas: I salute your bravery, elf, but the chase is over.

Sylvanas Windrunner: Then I'll make my stand here, butcher.  Anar'alah belore.

Arthas strikes her to the ground, she's near the death.

Sylvanas Windrunner: Finish it!  I deserve... a clean death.

Arthas: After all you've put me through, woman, the last thing I'll give you is 
the peace of death.

Arthas starts casting a spell.

Sylvanas Windrunner: No!  You wouldn't dare!

Arthas turns her into a banshee.  In The Frozen Throne, she will be a dark 
ranger, perhaps more fitting.

After a hard fought battle, Arthas reaches the pool of energy and defeats its
guardians, the golems.  The time is now.

Arthas: Citizens of Silvermoon!  I have given you ample opportunities to
surrender, but you have stubbornly refused!  Know that today, your entire race
and your ancient heritage will end!  Death itself has come to claim the high
tome of the elves!  Now, arise, Kel'Thuzad, and serve the Lich King once again!

Kel'Thuzad is reborn, but, not as a necromancer, as a Lich.

Kel'Thuzad: I am reborn, as promised!  The Lich King has granted me eternal
life!

Arthas: I've upheld my end of the bargain, Lich.  Are you ready to tell me
about the dreadlords now?

Kel'Thuzad: Certainly, but not here.  They have eyes and ears everywhere.
We'll talk where it's safe.


The Revelation

Three days later in the Alterac Mountains, the undead army flies through the
burning remains of the once wintered town.  The time for disclosure has come.

Arthas: So, you're not upset about me killing you that one time?

Kel'Thuzad: Don't be foolish.  The Lich King told me how our encounter would
end.

Arthas: The Lich King knew that I would kill you?

Kel'Thuzad: Of course.  He chose you to be his champion long before the Scourge
even began.

Arthas: If he's so all knowing, then how can the dreadlords control him like
they do?

Kel'Thuzad: They are agents of the ones who created our master; the fiery lords
of the Burning Legion.

Arthas: What is this Legion?

Kel'Thuzad: It is a vast demonic army that has consumed countless worlds beyond
our own.  Now, it comes to set this world to the flame.  Our master was created
to pave the way to its arrival.  The dreadlords were sent to make sure that he
succeeded.

Arthas: So the plague in Lordaeron, the citadels in Northrend, the slaughtering
of the elves... it was all just to prepare for some huge demonic invasion?

Kel'Thuzad: Yes, In time, you will find that our entire history has been shaped
by the coming conflict.  Now come, we have much work to do.


Chapter Six: Blackrock & Roll, Too!

The next morning, near a Blackrock clan encampment, Kel'Thuzad and Arthas meet
to discuss phase two.

Arthas: Isn't it time you told me about the second phase of the plan, lich?

Kel'Thuzad: Certainly.  The first phase of the Lich King's plan was to engineer
the Scourge, which would eradicate any group that might resist the Legion's
arrival.

Arthas: Like the forces of Lordaeron... and the high elves.

Kel'Thuzad: Exactly.  The second phase it to actually summon the demon lord who
will spark the invasion.

Arthas: So, where are we going now?

Kel'Thuzad: There is a nearby encampment of Blackrock Orcs who maintain a
functional demon gate.  I must use the gate to commune with the demon lord and
receive his instructions.

As the undead approach, the Orcs feel they are the ones serving the legion, and
attack.

Blademaster: We Orcs are the true servants of the burning legion!  These
mindless undead are weak... impure!

Kel'Thuzad: Your people failed their task, savage.  You, too, must be scourged
from the world.

An orc hero drops a tome of demon lore, which Arthas picks up and questions.

Arthas: I've encountered these demon-worshipping Orcs before.  How do they fit
into all this?

Kel'Thuzad: That, young one, is a very complicated matter.  Suffice it to say
they no longer hold any favor with the Legion.

Once they Orcs are dealt with, Arthas and Kel'Thuzad approach the demon gate.

Kel'Thuzad: I call upon thee, Archimonde!  Your humble servant seeks an
audience!

Archimonde: You called my name, puny lich, and I have come.  You are
Kel'Thuzad, are you not?

Kel'Thuzad: Yes, great one.  I am the summoner.

Archimonde: Very well, then.  There is a special tome you must find... the only
remaining spellbook of Medivh, the Last Guardian.  Only his lost incantations
are powerful enough to bring me into your world.

Kel'Thuzad: Where should we search for it, great one?

Archimonde: Seek out the mortal city of Dalaran.  It is there that the tome is
kept.  At twilight, three days from now, you will begin the summoning.


Chapter Seven: The Siege of Dalaran

Arthas' army approaches the Mage Capital of Dalaran.  His army sets up a camp
and he goes to the castle entrance to deliver an ultimatum.

Arthas: Wizards of the Kirin Tor!  I am Arthas, first of the Lich King's death
knights!  I demand that you open your gates and surrender to the might of the
Scourge!

Antonidas: Greetings, Prince Arthas.  How fares your noble father?

Arthas: Lord Antonidas.  There's no need to be snide.

Antonidas: We've prepared for your coming, Arthas.  My brethren and I have
erected auras that will destroy any undead that pass through them.

Arthas: Your petty magics will not stop me, Antonidas.

Antonidas: Pull your troops back, or we will be forced to unleash our full
powers against you.  Make your choice, death knight.

Kel'Thuzad: I sense that three separate wizards are maintaining these auras.
If you find and kill them, the auras will disperse.

While under an aura, the undead degenerate quickly.  However, the Archmages who
maintain them are a rather low level and die quite quickly from Arthas' wrath.
Eventually, Arthas will reach Antonidas, who maintains the final aura.

Antonidas: It pains me to even look at you, Arthas.

Arthas: I'll be happy to end your torment, old man.  I told you that your
magics could not stop me.

Arthas kills Antonidas, and walks with Kel'Thuzad to the spellbook of Medivh.

Arthas: The spellbook is all yours, lich.  Let's take it an leave before the
wizards amass for their final attack.

Kel'Thuzad: Indeed.  I will begin summoning Lord Archimonde at sunset.


Chapter Eight: Under the Burning Sky.

An hour later, as the sun begins to set Arthas has set up defenses around a
circle of power, where Kel'Thuzad will perform the ritual.  The humans have
rallied and are approaching.

Arthas: The circle of power has been prepared per your instructions, lich.  Are
you ready to begin the summoning?

Kel'Thuzad: Nearly.  I've been reading through Medivh's spellbook.  His
knowledge of demons alone is staggering.  I suspect he was far more powerful
than anyone ever realized.

Tichondrius appears.

Tichondrius: Not powerful enough to escape death, that is for certain.  Suffice
to say, the work he began, we will finish... today.  Let the summoning
commence.

As Kel'Thuzad gets closer to finishing the summoning, several units will fall
from the sky to aid Arthas.  After a while, Kel'Thuzad will complete the
ritual.

Kel'Thuzad: Come forth, Lord Archimonde!  Enter this world and let us bask in
your power!

Archimonde appears.

Archimonde: Tremble, mortals, and despair!  Doom has come to this world!  You
have done well, little lich.  My plan worked perfectly.

Tichondrius: Lord Archimonde, all the preparations have been made.

Archimonde: Very well, Tichondrius.  Since the Lich King is of no further use
to me, you dreadlords will now command the Scourge.

Tichondrius: As you wish, Lord Archimonde.

Archimonde: Soon, I will order the invasion to begin.  But first, I will make
an example of these paltry wizards... by crushing their city into the ashes of
history.

Arthas: This has got to be a joke!  What happens to us now?

Kel'Thuzad: Be patient, young death knight.  The Lich King foresaw this as
well.  You may yet have a part to play in his grand design.

Cinematic

Archimonde designs a rather good replica of Dalaran in the sands outside of the
great city.  As he crushes part of the replica, the actual city gets damaged.
Soon, the city is destroyed.  Archimonde's example complete.

End undead campaign.
Start orc campaign.


Chapter One: Landfall.

Thrall has led his people west over the great sea as the Prophet requested.  It
has been several weeks, but they have made it.  Their fleet broken by the
elements, the Orcs venture inland.

Grunt: Warchief, our ship sustained heavy damage when we passed through the
raging maelstrom.  It's unsalvageable.

Thrall: I knew it.  Can we confirm our location?  Is this Kalimdor?

Grunt: We traveled due west, as you instructed.  This should be it.

Thrall: Very well.  Has there been any sign of Grom Hellscream or the other
ships?

Grunt: No, warchief.  Not since we got separated.

Thrall: Hmmm.  Prepare to move out.  If our comrades did make it here, we
should be able to find them along the coast.

Along the way, Thrall sees many centaurs hunting down pig faced people.  He
notes a large centaur army amassing.  There is also no sign of Grom Hellscream.
Before long, a centaur party attacks Thrall.

Troll Headhunter: The horse men are charging!  Defend yourselves!

Thrall: Lok-Tar!  Lok-Tar!

A leader of the pig faces, Cairne Bloodhoof arrives.

Cairne Bloodhoof: I am Cairne, chief of the Bloodhoof Tauren.  You greenskins
fight with both savagery and valor.  I am intrigued.

Thrall: I am Thrall, and these are my brethren, the Orcs.  We've come seeking
the destiny promised to us.

Cairne Bloodhoof: [Laugh] Seeking destiny?  It will find you in time, young
one.  However, there is an Oracle far to the north which might be able to--

Thrall: North?  But there's an army of horse men marching north.

Cairne Bloodhoof: What?  No!  My village is in danger!

Thrall and Cairne make haste to his village.  They arrive just as the first
centaurs do.  After a long battle Thrall and the Orcs have protected the
village.

Thrall: Your tribe is safe, old one.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Thanks to you, young warchief.  But the centaur drove off all
the game in this region, and I cannot allow my people to starve.  Soon, we must
head north to the verdant grasslands of Mulgore.

Thrall: And you fear the marauders will overtake you.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Yes.  The devils' speed cannot be matched upon the plains.

Thrall: Well, if you tell us how to teach the Oracle you spoke of, then my
brethren and I will escort you on your march.

Cairne Bloodhoof: I am intrigued by you and your people, young Thrall.  You are
more than welcome to join us.


Chapter Two: The Long March

Thrall and Cairne have assembled their forces and a caravan to move Cairne's
supplies.

Thrall: This land is rugged and beautiful, much like the place from which my
people originally come.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Yes.  We tauren have always held a great respect for the
works of the Earth Mother.  There are far worse fates than living freely upon
the open plains, young warchief.

Thrall: Perhaps.  But my people deserve a land to call their own, Cairne.

Grunt: Warchief, we've spotted a herd of marauders bearing down on us!

Thrall: Cairne, the kodos are overburdened and must rest.  Why don't you remain
here and protect the caravan while we search for a suitable oasis?

Cairne Bloodhoof: Ha!  There's no need to coddle me, boy. I may be old, but I'm
not helpless.

Thrall enters several of his own Orcs on the way to these oases.  Cairne
follows with the kodos at a distance.  Soon, Thrall will have reached the third
oasis.  However, a large pack of centaurs attacks from higher ground.

Thrall: Cairne!  The caravan will never make it in time!

Cairne Bloodhoof: Let the fury of the Earth Mother deal with these wretches as
they deserve!

Cairne stomps on the ground causing a massive crevasse to form in the ground.
The centaurs are effectively cut off from the Orcs and taurens.

Cairne Bloodhoof: They will trouble us no more.  And you, young warchief, are
free to continue your quest.

Thrall: To the Oracle.  What is it?

Cairne Bloodhoof: Legends say that it saw the strands of fate as they were
woven by the Earth Mother.  It alone can show you your destiny.

Thrall: Where will I find it?

Cairne Bloodhoof: Far to the north, near the shadowy base of Mount Hyjal, lies
Stonetalon Peak.  You will find the Oracle within the peak's hollow.  I will
send my finest kodos to aid you in your journey.

Thrall: Thank you, Cairne.  I will not forget you.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Go with honor, young warchief.  May the Earth Mother smile
upon you.


Intermission: The Wreckage of Lordaeron

While the Orcs are busy trying to find destiny, Archimonde is having fun
smashing Lordaeron.

Tichondrius: Hail, mighty Mannoroth.  How goes the invasion?

Mannoroth: Bah!  These frail humans offer no real resistance.

Tichondrius: Then the Scourge did its job well, unlike some others I could
name.

Mannoroth: Do not mock me, dreadlord.  I am aware of the Orcs' failure.  When I
find them, I will discipline them myself!

Tichondrius: Yes, actually, that's why I've come here.  I thought you might
like to know that the Orcs are no longer here.

Mannoroth: What?  Are you certain?

Tichondrius: Certain as ever, Mannoroth.  My agents, at least, are always
dependable.  They tell me that the Orcs have landed on Kalimdor.

Mannoroth: Kalimdor?  But what could they be--  Bah!  The Orcs are mine by
right, and I will claim them, wherever they choose to run!

Archimonde teleports in.

Archimonde: And you are mine, Mannoroth!  You would do well to remember that
fact.  We will watch the wayward Orcs and wait.  Despite their failure, they
may still prove useful to us.


Chapter Three: Cry of the Warsong

Five days latter at the foothills of the Stonetalon Mountains, Thrall and his
forces continue on their journey to find the Oracle.

Grunt: Warchief, we've been trudging through this wasteland for a week and
nothing to fight but centaurs and pig-men!  We need real enemies to test our
mettle!

Thrall: Yes, boredom and the beating sun have put us all on edge.  But we must
push on!  All will be made clear once we meet the Oracle.

Grunt: Look!  It's the Warsong clan!  And they're battling humans!

Thrall: What?  Lok-Tar, warriors.  Hellscream needs help!

Archmage: Wretched Orcs!  How dare you follow us to this land!

Grom Hellscream: Save your breath, human!  You'll need it to scream when I
start tearing off your limbs!

The Orcs defeat the humans small camp.

Thrall: Grom, what was this about?  And how the hell did these humans get here,
anyway?

Grom Hellscream: Same way we did, little brother.  Apparently, a frail girl
named Proudmoore leads them.  Her forces have cordoned off the pass that leads
to the north.

Thrall: Well, we must make it through the pass, despite her.  I'll send our
hunters to scout the area while we establish a base. Until then, the humans are
not to be touched!

Grom Hellscream: Whatever you say, Warchief.

The scouts report that it may be possible for Thrall to slip by the humans, but
Grom's lust for battle sends the Orcs in early.  He attacks one of the human
bases.

Grunt: Warchief, the Warsong clan is attacking the humans, despite your orders!

Thrall: Damn it!  There's nothing to do now but fight!  Tighten up our
defenses, I'll deal with Hellscream later.

After fighting the humans, Thrall reaches a goblin merchant who sells him some
zeppelins, which will allow Thrall to bypass the next wave of humans.

Thrall: With these, we can reach Stonetalon Peak by morning.

Grom Hellscream: A true warrior would simple take the pass from the humans.

Thrall: Have you lost what's left of your mind, Grom?  I gave you a direct
order to leave the humans alone!  What the hell is wrong with you?

Grom Hellscream: Don't lecture me, pup!  The wretches deserved death!  Don't
you feel it, Thrall?  It's like the old days... like the demons are near.

Thrall: I don't know what's come over you and your men, but this bloodlust is a
liability that I can't afford.

Grom Hellscream: I'm sorry, Thrall.  You're right.  I... I can handle it.

Thrall: I can't take that chance, Grom.  Take your clan into the northern
forest and build us a settlement.  I'll come and find you after we've reached
the Oracle.


Chapter Four: The Spirits of Ashenvale

Thrall and his forces are moving towards the Oracle.  Hellscream and another
large contingent of Orcs are setting up a base camp in the Ashenvale forest...

Grom Hellscream: Damn Thrall for sending us away!  He chooses to use his
greatest warriors for manual labor?  He'll be lost without me.

Grunt: Chieftain, there's something strange about these woods.  It's too...
quiet.  Almost like we're being watched.

Grom Hellscream: Are you all afraid of spirits now?  There is nothing here but
ancient trees and shadow.

Grunt: You hear that?  This place is haunted!  I fear no living enemy, but my
axe cannot cleave fleshless spirits!

Grom Hellscream: Still your tongue and get to work!  The warchief's new
settlement will require a great deal of lumber.  This section of the forest
must be cleared!

The Orcs were in fact being watched, by an ancient race of elves.  Unlike the
elves of the human lands, these elves are all female.  Their bases are made of
large trees.  Grom, upon destroying some of these, utilizes them for the new
settlement.  Before long, the Orc lumber stockpiles are nearly full.  Grom
issues the order to begin constructing a larger settlement for Thrall's forces.


Intermission: The Blood of Mannoroth

Later that evening, in the nearby Moonglades of Cenarius, Mannoroth and
Tichondrius teleport in.  Mannoroth slaughters some nearby wildlife.

Mannoroth: Ashenvale forest, After ten thousand years, I still recognized this
cursed place!  This is the vale of our ancient enemy, the night elves' demigod,
Cenarius.

Tichondrius: Yes, Lord Archimonde demands that Cenarius be destroyed before we
launch the invasion of Kalimdor.

Mannoroth: I would relish the chance to face him again in combat, but he is
crafty and rarely appears in the open.

Tichondrius: Fateful as it sounds, your pet Orcs have recently despoiled these
forestlands and incurred his wrath.  Lord Archimonde and I believe that the
Orcs are capable of killing Cenarius for us.

Mannoroth: They would have little chance against Cenarius.  If memory serves,
his powers were quite formidable.

Tichondrius: Yes, but so are yours.  The blood pact that you made with the Orcs
long ago still binds them to you.  You need only recharge their energies.

Mannoroth: Just what are you suggesting, dreadlord?

Tichondrius: Spill your blood into this pool.  Its corruption will lure the
Orcs to it, and once they've tasted your blood again, they will be unstoppable!

Mannoroth spills his blood into the pool, laughing at the inevitable victory it
will bring.


Chapter Five: The Hunter of Shadows.

The next morning in the woods of Ashenvale, Grom Hellscream has succeeded in
creating a large orc base.  However, the destruction of the forest has angered
Cenarius.

Cenarius: Who dares defile this ancient land?  Who dares the wrath of Cenarius
and the night elves?

Cenarius casts several spells, many trees turn into warriors.

Grunt: The forest is coming alive!  We're under attack!

Cenarius: Let battle be joined!

Cenarius and the night elves knock down most of the orc base, leaving Grom
Hellscream just a small encampment on the far side of the vale.  Cenarius uses
another spell and all the cut down trees are instantly replenished with new
ones.

Cenarius: Now, my warriors, cleanse these brutes from the wilds!  I will watch
over you from the forest.

It was clear from his initial attack, that Cenarius is all but immune to orc
attacks.  A Troll Witch Doctor senses great power from a pool to the north.
Hellscream heads over that way.  The pool is guarded by a group of Satyrs.

Satyr: Foul Orcs!  The burning masters charged us with protecting this well.
You are unworthy of drinking from these dark waters.

Grom Hellscream: I don't know what you are or who you serve, but no one bars my
way!

Witch Doctor: This pool emanates great power, but I smell the stench of a
demons curse about it!

Grom Hellscream: I am cursed already!  If I must drink from these waters to
defeat Cenarius, then I will.

Grunt: No!  That goes against everything the warchief teaches us!  We can't let
rage overcome us again!

Grom Hellscream: No, warrior.  We must embrace it as never before!  We must
become the vessels of destruction that we were meant to be!

Hellscream drinks from the pool.  He turns red and his size increases.

Grom Hellscream: Yes!  I feel the power once again!  Come, my warriors!  Drink
from the dark waters and you will be reborn!

With their renewed demonic power, the Orcs are able to hurt and eventually kill
the demigod Cenarius.

Grom Hellscream: The demigod has fallen.  The Warsong is supreme!

Mannoroth appears.

Mannoroth: Hello again, Grommash.

Grom Hellscream: Mannoroth!  It... can't be.

Mannoroth: I've come to bring you and your brethren back into the fold.  Though
you Orcs failed the Burning Legion before, you will now serve us once again!

Grom Hellscream: No!  We... are free!

Mannoroth: Stupid, pitiful creature.  I am the rage in your heart.  I am the
fury of your thoughts.  I alone empowered you to bring chaos to this world, and
by the endless void, you shall!


Chapter Six: Where Wyverns Dare

At the base of Stonetalon Peak, Thrall and his forces have run into a bit of a
dead end.

Orc Scout: Warchief, we scouted the peak as you ordered.  The humans have
entrenched their fortifications all the way up to the summit.

Thrall: What are they up to?  If they're looking to pick a fight, they've had
ample opportunities before this!

Cairne Bloodhoof and his taurens approach.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Ish-ne-alo-por-ah, young warchief!

Thrall: Cairne!  What are you doing here?

Cairne Bloodhoof: Our debt to you Orcs can only be repaid with blood.  We've
come to help you reach the oracle.  However, those metal-clad pinkskins look
like trouble.

Thrall: Those pinkskins are called humans.  They are our enemies from across
the sea.  They seem intent on keeping us from the peak.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Hmmm.  The Oracle's wisdom belongs to us all.  Perhaps the
wyverns that live nearby can be of use to us.  They have no love for hostile
intruders!

Taking Cairne's advise, Thrall searches for these wyverns, but when he spots a
pack, they're under attack.

Cairne Bloodhoof: The harpies have enslaved the wyverns!

Harpy Queen: Be warned, old fool.  Stonetalon Peak is ours.  Neither these
brutes nor the humans will leave this place alive.  Attack, my sisters!

Cairne Bloodhoof believes the wyverns will help should Thrall be able to free
them.  He agrees.  Eventually, several caged wyverns are freed by Thrall.

Cairne Bloodhoof: There!  These proud beasts will now aid us in reaching the
summit.

With their aid, the human base falls and Thrall is able to march to the
entrance of the Oracle's lair.  There is a problem, though, a small human force
gets in just before him.  Jaina is leading the expedition.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Hold, warchief.

Thrall: That's the young sorceress Grom told me about.  It appears she seeks
the oracle as well.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Be wary, young one.  That cave is the perfect spot for an
ambush.

Thrall: Don't worry, Cairne.  I was raised by the humans.  I know their tricks
and stratagems.  There's no way that I'll let them stop me from reaching the
Oracle.


Chapter Seven: The Oracle

Minutes later, Thrall and Cairne head into the cave under Stonetalon Peak.

Cairne Bloodhoof: The path cuts off in different directions.

Thrall: Either of those caverns could stretch for miles.  Perhaps we should
split up?

Cairne Bloodhoof: Very well.  Be careful, young one.  There's no telling what
ancient creatures lie within the mountain's depths.

Thrall: I will, Cairne.  Good luck.

Thrall is the first to encounter anything.  He finds several odd gates.  One of
them speaks to him.

Aszune: I am Aszune, ancient princess of the moon-children.  None may pass
until my heart is returned to me.

Thrall finds her heart in another chamber, and gives it to her.

Thrall: Here is your heart, Aszune.  Now grant us passage to the Oracle.

The passage leads to another apparent dead end.  There is an area across a pit
of lava, but no apparent way across it.

Thrall: Apparently, this is some kind of spectral bridge.  But the enchanted
gemstone that powers it is missing.  With any luck, Cairne will find it for us.

As luck would have it, Cairne has found a magical gemstone.

Cairne Bloodhoof: The gemstone has an inscription on its base.  Ah... this is
the spirit stone of Stonetalon Chasm.  If the legends are true, then this will
activate the spirit bridge that leads to the Oracle!

Cairne makes his way to the bridge area where Thrall is.  He holds up the
gemstone and a bridge appears.

Cairne Bloodhoof: Ah, the Spirits' Bridge... Just as the legends described it.
Now, young warchief, the path to the Oracle is revealed!

Thrall and Cairne cross the bridge.  Jaina and some of her human army are
waiting in this area as well.

Jaina: Orcs.  I knew that we were being followed.  Defend yourselves!

The Prophet: Stop!  There will be no violence in this place.

Thrall: That voice.  You're not Oracle!  You're the prophet!

The Prophet: Very perceptive, son of Durotan.  I am the prophet.  And, now that
I've lured you all here, I will tell you what destiny holds.

Thrall: What the hell is going on here?

The Prophet: Thrall, this is Jaina Proudmoore, leader of the survivors of
Lordaeron.

Thrall: Survivors?  What are you talking about?

The Prophet: The invasion of the Burning Legion has begun!  Lordaeron has
already fallen and now the demons come to invade Kalimdor!  Only together,
united against the shadow, will you be able to save this world from the flame.

Jaina: Unite with them?  Are you mad?

The Prophet: Have you heard nothing that I've said?  The Legion comes to undo
history and end all life!  Thrall, your friend Hellscream has already fallen
under the demons' influence.  Soon he and your whole race will be lost forever!

Thrall: No... I'll die before I let that happen!

The Prophet: Then you must rescue him immediately!  He is the key to the
destiny I promised you.  However, you will need help.

Jaina: Wait!  This is insane!  You can't possibly expect me to--

The Prophet: Destiny is at hand, young sorceress.  The time to choose has come.
For the fate of all who live, humanity must join forces with the Horde.


Chapter Eight: By Demons Be Driven

Three days later, near the edge of the Barrens, Thrall, Jaina and Cairne
prepare for the daunting task ahead.

Cairne Bloodhoof: If the prophet was correct, then the Warsong encampment lies
just over the ridge.  We should ready ourselves for battle.

Thrall: I know, Cairne.  It's just that I never thought I'd live to see the
day... when I had to fight my own people.

Jaina: Just remember, Thrall, with this soul gem you can capture your friend
Hellscream's spirit without hurting him.  But you need to bring it back to my
base immediately, so we can free Grom from the demons' control.

Thrall: I... appreciate your help, Miss Proudmoore.  Yet another day I thought
I'd never live to see.

Jaina: That makes two of us.  I'll return to my base and aid you as best I can.
Good luck... gentlemen.

Jaina exits to her base.

Cairne Bloodhoof: The spirits rage around you, young warchief.  They sense your
anguish... your grief.

Thrall: Hellscream is like a brother to me, Cairne.  But he and his clan have
fallen under the demons' influence.  If I can't save him, then my people might
be damned for all time.

As Thrall nears Groms' location, the skies turn red with fire.

Jaina: Thrall!  The skies are burning!

Thrall: This is no natural storm!  Blessed ancestors,,, Everyone brace
yourselves!

Dozens upon dozens of infernals fall to the ground.  They charge in various
directions.

Thrall: Fight on, my warriors!  We must reach Hellscream before it's too late!

Thrall finally reaches Grom, who is standing next to a demon gate.

Thrall: Grom!  You've got to come with me!

Grom Hellscream: And where would you lead me, boy?  Destiny is at hand!  Lord
Mannoroth is our master now.

Thrall: Who?  You're not talking sense!

Grom Hellscream: Ah, Thrall.  You always believed that the demons corrupted our
race, but that's only half true.  We gave ourselves up willingly on Draenor!
The other chieftains and I... we drank Mannoroth's blood, Thrall.  We brought
this curse upon ourselves!

Thrall: You did this... to our people... knowingly?  Arrrgghhh!

Thrall captures Grom in the soul gem and brings it back to the circle of power
near Jaina's base.  Grom is removed from the crystal as several human priests
and orc shaman's exorcise the demons out of him.

Thrall: Grom?

Grom Hellscream: Thrall... I see clearly now.  I'm... sorry.  I am so sorry.

Thrall: To hell with your apologies!  Right now, I need you to help me save our
people!

Grom Hellscream: Mannoroth... We must face Mannoroth in the canyon.

Thrall: Then let's go.  I don't want to keep the bastard waiting.


Cinematic

Thrall and Grom walk into the canyon to fight the pit lord, Mannoroth.  Due to
the skies burning, the canyon has poor visibility and Mannoroth is well
concealed.

Mannoroth: [Laughing] So predictable.  I knew you would come, and I see you
brought the mighty Hellscream.  [Laughs]  His blood is mine, as is your whole
misbegotten race.

Mannoroth appears behind Thrall and Grom, smashing his weapon into the ground.
Mannoroth is huge in comparison to either of the Orcs.

Thrall lets out a shout, smashes his hammer into the ground.  It charges up and
he lets it fly at Mannoroth.  Mannoroth blocks closes his wings around himself
and blocks the hammer.  There is a  huge explosion.

Mannoroth: A worthy effort, but futile.

Mannoroth charges at Thrall, knocking him several meters into a nearby rock
face.  Mannoroth laughs.  Grom, having been knocked down as well, reaches for
his axe and gets to his feet.

Mannoroth: The boy believed you could be saved, but he didn't know what burns
within your soul.  When in your heart, you know we are the same.

Grom Hellscream: Nooooooooo!

Grom charges at Mannoroth, who takes up a defensive pose.  Mannoroth takes the
brunt of the axe in his chest.  The demon energies begin to escape from his
body, within moments they ignite causing a massive explosion which kills
Mannoroth and sends Hellscream flying backwards while burning.  Thrall limps
over to Grom, who lies nearly motionless.

Grom Hellscream: Thrall.  The blood haze, has lifted.  The demons fire has
burnt out of my veins.  I... have... freed... myself.

Grom Dies.

Thrall: No, old friend.  You've freed us all.

Thrall yells out a loud shout which shakes the canyon.


End Orc Campaign.
Begin Night Elf Campaign.


Chapter One: Enemies at the Gate

A combined Human and Orc force continues to move through Ashenvale to ensure
that the demon threat to the planet no longer exists.  However, the Night Elves
are not too happy about this intrusion.  Tyrande Whisperwind, a leader in the
Night Elf ranks, feels these intruders will bring doom to her homeland.  She
stands atop a mountain starring out towards an encampment.  Some of the other
Night Elves are worried about Tyrande.

Shandris Feathermoon: Pardon, Priestess, but you've been staring out across
Ashenvale for hours.

Tyrande Whisperwind: I sense something dark stirring within the forests,
Shandris.  It feels as if it's heading this way.

Shandris Feathermoon: The greenskins who killed Cenarius?

Tyrande Whisperwind: Perhaps.  Perhaps something more.

One of her owl scouts flies over the encampment.  A human paladin is in charge.

Duke Lionheart: Put your backs into it!  Jaina and the orc warchief expect this
base to be built swiftly!

Footman: Bah!  We shouldn't even be here!  Or siding with the Orcs.

Grunt: We're here to hunt the remaining demons, human.  You're lucky our goals
are the same.

Duke Lionheart: All right, you men!  Mind your business!  Back to work!

Back to Tyrande and Shandris.

Tyrande Whisperwind: So, these Orcs and humans presume to run rampant through
our lands?  They will regret ever stepping foot into Ashenvale.  We will
establish a base and deal with these outlanders as they deserve.

Tyrande's forces make quick work of the base, but just as it is finished off,
the nearby stags run off, the sky darkness and begins to spew fire.  Members of
the Burning Legion and undead teleport in.

Grunt: It's the undead!  Defend yourselves!

Footman: They must have followed us from Lordaeron!

Archer: Elune save us!  The dead advance in waves!

With several Abominations running amok, and the skies still pouring fire, it is
clear all the armies of the living are doomed.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Quickly, my sisters, back to the trees!  We are no match
for a force this vast.


Chapter Two: Daughters of the Moon

Three hours later, in the foothills of Mount Hyjal, Tyrande and her troops are
still running from the undead, who are mowing down the forests just as fast as
Tyrande can get through them.  Archimonde and Tichondrius are near the front
line of pursuit.

Archer: The undead are tireless.  There's no way to outrun them!

Tichondrius: You see, Lord Archimonde?  We need not fear the night elves.  The
Scourge can--

Tyrande Whisperwind: Archimonde... After ten thousand years, how is it
possible?

Archimonde: The Legion has returned to consume this world, woman.  And this
time, your troublesome race will not stop us.

Two doom guards kill the two archers near Tyrande.  As they go for her, she
disappears.

Archimonde: Fools!  You let her slip away!  [He kills a doom guard].  Find her,
damn you!  Find her and kill her!

They run off, and Tyrande reappears.  The ability to hide is indigenous to most
night elf units when it is nighttime.

Tyrande Whisperwind: The day we have long feared has finally come.  The Burning
Legion has returned!  I must cross the river and warn the rest of my sisters
before all is lost!

Tyrande weaves her way through the forest, hiding herself when undead draw
near.  Eventually, before morning, she reaches a night elf base.

Shandris Feathermoon: Tyrande!  Praise Elune, you've made it!  The undead
appeared out of nowhere and attacked our village without warning!

Tyrande Whisperwind: Ishnu-dal-dieb, Shandris.  We have a greater problem.  The
undead were sent here by the Burning Legion, our ancient enemies of old.
Against such might, we have only one option.  We must awaken the druids.


Chapter Three: The Awakening of Stormrage

The next day, on the outskirts of a sacred moonglade where a powerful druid
sleeps, Tyrande and her forces arrive.

Tyrande Whisperwind: With Cenarius dead, it falls to us to awaken the druids.
We must recover the demigod's horn from the sacred Moonglade Isle.  Only its
clarion calls can awaken the druids from their slumber.

Archer: But, Priestess, the Orcs have established a crude settlement upon the
isle.  We'll need to fight through them to reach Canarius' horn!

Another Night Elf army rushes in.

Huntress: Priestess Tyrande, thank Elune we found you.  The undead are
advancing upon the nearby Barrow Dens!  The Dens seem abandoned, but--

Tyrande Whisperwind: There is one druid sleeping within them, sister... Furion
Stormrage.  He is the wisest and most powerful of all the druids.  He must be
warned that the Legion has returned!

Huntress: Then we'd better hurry.  If they undead overtake his Den before he's
awakened.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Let us make haste, my sisters!  All our hopes rest on
Furion's awakening!

After plowing through the orc base, Tyrande must defeat three primal guardians
who protect the horn.  She does.

Tyrande Whisperwind: At last!  The horn of Cenarius!  Now we can awake Furion!

Tyrande blows the horn and it echoes throughout the land.  Furion awakens
before the undead reach him.

Furion Stormrage: The horn has sounded, and I have come as promised!  I smell
the stench of decay and corruption in our land.  That angers me greatly.

Furion turns some nearby trees into treant warriors.

Furion Stormrage: Come forth, you defenders of old!  Crush these invaders as
you did in ages past!

The treants run off and attack the undead.


Chapter Four: The Druids Arise

Two days later, in Winterspring Valley, Tyrande and Furion have arrived near
the sleeping area of more druids.

Furion Stormrage: It has been a thousand years since I last looked up you,
Tyrande.  I thought of you every moment I roamed through the Emerald Dream.

Tyrande Whisperwind: My heart rejoices to see you again, Furion.  But I would
not have awakened you unless the need was urgent.

Furion Stormrage: In the Dream, I felt our land being corrupted, just as if it
were my own body.  You were right to awaken me.

Tyrande Whisperwind: The Burning Legion has returned, Furion.  Cenarius is
dead, and the outlanders roam freely through our most sacred vales.

Furion Stormrage: As was foretold...  No doubt Archimonde will make his way to
Hyjal Summit and attack the World Tree.  If he succeeds in draining the tree's
energies, this world will be doomed.

Tyrande Whisperwind: My only thought was to awaken you and the rest of the
druids.  The druids of the talon reside within Barrow Dens at the end of this
valley.  If we can reach them, we may have a chance to stop Archimonde and his
demons!

A nearby pack of humans are battling undead.  Tyrande and Furion rush over to
observe.

Footman: That did it, boys!  We've driven them off!  Let's regroup back at the
base and tend to our wounded.

Furion Stormrage: So, the outlanders battle against the undead as well?  They
could prove to be powerful allies against Archimonde and his ilk.

Tyrande Whisperwind: They are mongrels and nothing more!  They are responsible
for Cenarius' death!  I will be damned before I stand with them.

Furion Stormrage: Perhaps you are right, my love.  We will establish our new
settlement here.  Keep your sentries alert.  I doubt that we have seen the last
of the outlanders or the undead.

As Furion and Tyrande search for the druids of the talon, they find the
corruption of the land has spread to his area.

Tyrande Whisperwind: No!  The outpost has been corrupted, and the treants have
been driven mad!  They do not deserve this cruel fate!

Satyr: Come no further, weakling!  Lord Tichondrius commanded us to kill anyone
attempting to enter this place, and we shall!

Furion Stormrage: Pathetic wretches!  It pains me that you once called
yourselves night elves!

Furion and Tyrande succeed in wiping out the corrupted treants and others of
the forest.  They proceed to the Barrow Den.

Furion Stormrage: Come forth, druids of the talon!  Let the storm crows fly
once again upon the winds of war!

Furion plays the horn and the druids awake, flying as birds.  One of them
reverts to humanoid form.

Furion Stormrage: Ishnu, alah, my brethren.  Kalimdor has need of your powers
once again, for the hour of doom is at hand.

Druid of the Talon: We are yours to command, Shan'do Stormrage.

Furion Stormrage: Now, we must delve into the earth and rouse the ferocious
druids of the claw from their slumber.


Chapter Five: Brothers in Blood

The next morning, in a subterranean Barrow being Mount Hyjal, Tyrande and
Furion bring a small force in looking for the druids of the claw.

Furion Stormrage: These Barrow Deeps have remained untouched for nearly three
thousand years.  Still, there is no telling what creatures may have taken up
residence after we sealed these tunnels shut.

Tyrande Whisperwind: There is nothing to fear in this place.  The only enemy
that has ever given me pause is now corrupting the lands above us.  Let us be
done with this business and get back to the surface.

Furion Stormrage: Agreed.  Just be careful.  There is no telling how the druids
of the claw will react to us after all this time.

Not far into the Barrow, a path guarded by multiple gates splits off.

Tyrande Whisperwind: The pathway cuts off to the south, but this doorway looks
promising.

Furion Stormrage: Oh, no.  How could I have forgotten?

Tyrande Whisperwind: What is behind this door that worries you, my love?

Furion Stormrage: This door leads to Illidan's prison, Tyrande.  We should
go... now!

Tyrande Whisperwind: Illidan?  It's been ten thousand years!  Could he still be
alive?  We should free him, Furion!  He would be the perfect ally against the
undead and their demon masters!

Furion Stormrage: No, Tyrande!  That beast must never be set free!

Tyrande Whisperwind: But he is your brother!

Furion Stormrage: Be that as it may, he is far too... dangerous.  I forbid it.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Only the goddess may forbid me anything.  I will free
Illidan whether you like it or not.

Tyrande rushes through the first gate and closes it behind herself, trapping
Furion and most of the army they brought with on the original path.
Grudgingly, Furion continues to search for the sleeping druids.  He finds them,
except, they aren't sleeping.

Furion Stormrage: Ah... the druids of the claw are awake already!  Come, my
brothers!  We have much to do!

The druids of the claw attack the druids of the talon who approach them.  The
claw druids are in bear form, to counter this, the druids of the talon get them
in a cyclone and keep them suspended in the air.

Furion Stormrage: What in...  They have lost themselves to their animal
aspects.  They are mindless and feral!  The horn's call might work, but it
would reach only a few of them in this part of the cavern.

Instead, Furion decides, he needs to get deeper in the cavern to awaken them
all.  However, he has to sneak his way past several druids, entangling them
whenever they pursue.  Eventually, he reaches a central point and blows the
horn of cenarius.

Druid of the Claw: Shan'do Stormrage!  I don't know what came over us.  It's
been so long since we remembered who we were.

Furion Stormrage: All is well, thero-shan.  I have need of you and your mighty
brethren once again.  After these many ages, the Burning Legion has returned,
and only our combined strength can drive them back.

Druid of the Claw: Then we druids of the claw are yours to command, Shan'do
Stormrage.

Meanwhile, on the other side of the locked gate, Tyrande and a small amount of
night elves proceed to find Illidan.

Tyrande Whisperwind: I cannot go back.  Goddess grant that Furion was wrong.

Elder Watcher: Your quest is foolhardy!  Even your goddess has condemned the
one you seek to free!

Tyrande makes her way to the cell in which Illidan is held.  It is protected
well.

Keeper of the Grove: Hold, Priestess!  This place is forbidden, even to one
such as you.  There is a terrible evil here that must remain chained beneath
the earth.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Illidan was considered a great hero once, I believe he
will become one again.

Keeper of the Grove: Madness!  You would doom us all by freeing the betrayer!

Tyrande defeats all the guards and approaches the cell, she sees a shadowy
figure.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Illidan!  Is that you?

Illidan Stormrage: Tyrande... it is your voice!  After all these ages spent in
darkness, your voice is like the pure light of the moon upon my mind.

Tyrande Whisperwind: The Legion has returned, Illidan.  Your people have need
of you once more.

Illidan shatters the cell he was being held in.  Makes you wonder why he
willingly stayed in it for ten thousand years.

Illidan Stormrage: Because I once cared for you, Tyrande, I will hunt down the
demons.  But I will never owe our people anything!

Tyrande Whisperwind: Then let us hurry back to the surface!  The demons'
corruption spreads with every second we waste!

Tyrande and Illidan head back to the entrance of the Barrow, they run into
Furion with his newly awoken druids.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Furion!

Illidan Stormrage: It has been an eternity, brother.  An eternity spent in
darkness!

Furion Stormrage: Illidan!  You were sentenced to pay for your sins, nothing
more!

Illidan Stormrage: And who were you to judge me?  We fought the demons side by
side, if you recall.

Tyrande Whisperwind: Enough of this, both of you!  What is done is done!  My
love, with Illidan's help, we will drive the demons back once again and save
what is left of our beloved land!

Furion Stormrage: Have you even considered the cost, Tyrande?  This betrayer's
aid may doom us all before the end.  I will have nothing of this.


Chapter Six: A Destiny of Flame and Sorrow

The following evening, deep in the corrupted forests of Felwood Illidan
contemplates his new life.  Little does he know, Arthas is watching him from a
nearby hill.

Illidan Stormrage: I am free after ten thousand years, yet still my own brother
thinks I am a villain!  I'll show him my true power!  I'll show him that the
demons have no hold over me!

Arthas: Are you certain of that, demon hunter?  Are you certain your will is
your own?

Illidan Stormrage: You reek of death, human.  You'll regret approaching me.

Arthas: Come then, you'll find we're evenly matched.

Illidan charges, but neither are able to wound the other.

Illidan Stormrage: We could go on fighting like this forever.  What is it you
truly want?

Arthas: The dreadlord who commands this undead army is called Tichondrius.  He
controls a powerful warlock artifact called the Skull of Gul'dan.  It is
responsible for corrupting these forests.

Illidan Stormrage: And you wish for me to steal it.  Why?

Arthas: Let's just say I have no love for Tichondrius, and the lord I serve
would... benefit from the Legion's downfall.

Illidan Stormrage: Why should I believe anything you say, little human?

Arthas: My master sees all, demon hunter.  He knows that you've sought power
your whole life.  Now it lies within your grasp!  Seize it, and your enemies
will be undone.

Arthas leaves.  Illidan decides he will need this power to prove Furion wrong.
He fights his way to the Skull of Gul'dan.

Illidan Stormrage: Now at least the demons will no longer corrupt the forests.
But, if I destroy the skull and claim its powers as my own, I will become even
stronger than any of Archimonde's lieutenants.  Yes... the power should be
mine!

Illidan destroys the skull.  It transforms him into a demon.

Illidan Stormrage: Now I am complete!

Illidan rushes over to Tichondrius and rips a hole through his army.

Tichondrius: What?  Who are... you?

Illidan Stormrage: Let's see how confident you are against one of your own
kind, dreadlord!

Illidan slays Tichondrius.  Moments later, Furion and Tyrande arrive.  The
ground is shaking.

Furion Stormrage: Foul demon!  What have you done with my brother?

Illidan Stormrage: It is I, Furion.  This is what I've become.

Tyrande Whisperwind: No!  Illidan, how could you?

Illidan Stormrage: The leader of the undead has been destroyed, and the forests
will heal in time.

Furion Stormrage: At the cost of your soul?  You are no brother of mine!
Begone from this place and never set foot in our lands again!

Illidan Stormrage: So be it... brother.

Illidan runs off.


Interlude: The Last Guardian.

Two days later, Furion and Tyrande are standing in a tranquil area of the
forest.  The prophet flies over in his raven form.  Tyrande grows impatient.

Tyrande Whisperwind: We have no time for this, Furion!  What are we doing out
here?

Furion Stormrage: Last night in a dream, a great raven spoke to me and summoned
me to this place.

Thrall and Jaina arrive together as well.

Thrall: We were summoned here as well.

Furion Stormrage: Who are you, outlanders?

Thrall: I am Thrall, son of Durotan.  Warchief of the Horde.

Jaina: And I am Jaina Proudmoore, leader of the human survivors of Lordaeron.

Tyrande Whisperwind: You are not welcome here!

The prophet lands and turns human.

The Prophet: Peace, Priestess.  They've come to aid you against the Legion.

Furion Stormrage: It was you in my dream!  But who are you to make such an
offer to us?

The Prophet: I... and the reason for the Legion's return.  Years ago, I brought
the Orcs into this world, and by doing so, I opened a path for the demons as
well.  For my sins, I was murdered by those who I cared for the most.  Despite
my death, war raged across the lands of the east for many long years, leaving
entire kingdoms devastated in its wake.  Now, at long last, I have returned to
set things right.  I... am Medivh, the Last Guardian.  I tell you now, the only
chance for this world is to unite in arms against the enemies of all who live!


Chapter Seven: Twilight of the Gods

The next morning, the Orcs and Humans set up defenses at the bottom of the
Hyjal summit, while the Night Elves stay near the top, preparing for the
Legion's coming invasion.  Tyrande, Furion, and Thrall meet one last time to
discuss their plan.  Jaina is late, as usual, but teleports in.

Jaina: I'm sorry I'm late.  It's just as we feared.  Archimonde and his doom
guard are making their way towards the summit.  He'll be here any moment.

Furion Stormrage: Ten thousand years ago we night elves defeated the Burning
Legion.  Though the rest of the world was shattered, we were left free to live
out our immortal lives in peace, bound to the World Tree.  We are its
protectors, and through it we were granted immortality and power over nature.
Now, at last, it is time we gave that power back.

Tyrande Whisperwind: You realize that we will age as these mortals do.  Our
powers will wane in time.

Furion Stormrage: If pride gives us pause, my love, then perhaps we have lived
long enough already.  I will proceed to the summit and prepare our defense
there.  Whatever comes, my love, remember... our bond is eternal.

Furion runs over to a gate and begins some form of summoning spell.  At the
bottom of the mountain, Archimonde appears.

Archimonde: Hear me, night elves!  The time for reckoning has come!

Jaina [To Tyrande]: If you can provide our bases with support and keep us from
being overwhelmed, Thrall and I will delay Archimonde's ascent!

Tyrande Whisperwind: Your plan is a bold one, girl.  Perhaps I have misjudged
you outlanders.  May Elune shine upon you!

The goal is for the three armies to stall Archimonde for 45 minutes, while
Furion prepares.  Jaina's base is the closest to Archimonde.  While the humans
fight valiantly, eventually the Legion's overwhelms them and builds its new
base there.  Archimonde approaches Jaina, who stands directly in front of him
blocking the way.

Archimonde: You are very brave to stand against me, little human.  If only your
countrymen had been as bold, I would have had more fun scouring your wretched
nations from the world!

Jaina: Is talking all you demons do?

Jaina teleports out of her base.

Archimonde: Stormrage!  Show yourself!  Or do you intend to have mortal girls
do all your fighting for you?

Thrall's base suffers a similar fate in time.  Archimonde pins Thrall against a
forest, as his troops take down Thrall's base and assemble their own.

Archimonde: You Orcs are weak and hardly worth the effort!  I wonder why
Mannoroth even bothered with you!

Thrall: Our spirit is stronger than you know, demon!  If we are to fall, then
so be it!  At least now... we are free!

Thrall teleports out as well.

Archimonde: The wretched little whelp actually hurt me... Are there none left
to stand against the legion?  This is almost too easy!  If I'd known that this
mortal resistance would be so weak, I would have launched this invasion
centuries ago!

The Night Elves hold out for the rest of the time Furion needed, but quickly
fall after that.  Archimonde levels the night elf base.  Furion watches from
afar.

Furion Stormrage: Archimonde's victory here has made him overconfident.  He
will not see the trap that I laid for him until it is too late.

Archimonde arrives at the gate.

Archimonde: At last, the way to the World Tree is clear!  Witness the end, you
mortals!  The final hour has come!

Tyrande runs up to Furions watching point.

Tyrande Whisperwind: The outlanders held him back as long as they could.  Were
you successful in planning the summit's defenses?

Furion Stormrage: Yes.  Now our victory is assured.

Archimonde reaches the World Tree and starts climbing its massive roots which
cover the entire vale.  He reaches the trunk at last.  From afar, Furion plays
the Horn of Cenarius.  The entire mountain, which was covered in wisps
harvesting trees, leaves the tree and swarms Archimonde.  Their energies harm
him to the point death.  He explodes.  The trees covering the mountain are all
singed, the mountain itself looks dying.  The World Tree appears to be in tact,
but badly damaged, however, the roots are expanding.

The Prophet/Medivh: The roots will heal in time, as will the entire world.  The
sacrifices have been made.  Just as the Orcs, Humans and Night Elves discarded
their old hatreds and stood united against a common foe.  So did nature herself
rise up, to banish the shadow forever.  As for me, I came back to ensure that
there would be a future, to teach the world it no longer needed guardians.  The
hope for future generations has always resided in mortal hands.  And now that
my task is done, I will take my place amongst the legends... of the past.


End Credits
FAQ Display Options: Printable Version

GameFAQs.comfacebook.com/GFAQstwitter.com/GameFAQsHelp / Contact UsChange Colors 
gamespot.comgiantbomb.commetacritic.comgamerankings.com
© 2016 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.SitemapAdvertisePrivacy PolicyAd ChoiceTerms of Use